============================ START ARTICLE ===========================
Don't get caught up on the gadgets at CES, you probably won't be able to buy them.
Ever. wrd.cm/2iMcNEU Slide: 1 / of 3. Caption: Geordie Wood for WIRED Slide: 2 / of
3. Caption: Caption: Lee Sedol surrounded by the press after game four. Geordie
Wood for WIRED Slide: 3 / of 3. Caption: Caption: Demis Hassabis. Geordie Wood for
WIRED SEOUL, SOUTH KOREA — In the final game of their historic match, Google’s
artificially intelligent Go-playing computer system has defeated Korean grandmaster
Lee Sedol, finishing the best-of-five series with four wins and one loss. The win
puts an exclamation point on a significant moment for artificial intelligence. Over
the last twenty-five years, machines have beaten the best humans at checkers,
chess, Othello, even Jeopardy! But this is the first time a machine has topped the
very best at Go—a 2,500-year-old game that’s exponentially more complex than chess
and requires, at least among humans, an added degree of intuition. Game Five grew
into the most exciting of the series, a game balanced on a knife edge. The victory
is notable in its own right. But this week’s events are even more significant when
you consider that the machine learning technologies underpinning Google’s machine,
known as AlphaGo, are already pushing their way into real-world applications. Some
help drive services inside Google and other Internet giants, helping to identify
faces in photos, recognize commands spoken into smartphones, and so much more.
Other techniques at the heart of Google’s AI are poised to remake everything from
scientific research to robotics. Lee Sedol could not climb back to finish within
one win of his artificially intelligent rival. But he did lead Game Five in the
early going, after a significant error by AlphaGo—an error that looked amateurish
to the human eye. As the Google machine dug out of its hole in the second half of
the contest, Game Five grew into the most exciting of the series, a game balanced
on a knife edge, exceeding even the drama of Lee Sedol’s win in Game Four. The
Korean showed—in swashbuckling fashion—that humans still carry talents that no
machine can duplicate. Yes, early in the five-game series, he struggled to deal
with the pressure—a very human failing. But as the match continued, he adapted to
what he saw from his opponent in previous games—something AlphaGo can’t yet do. The
excitement swirling around Game Five was more extreme even than in the run-up to
Game One—a remarkable thing when you consider that the match had been decided three
days earlier, when AlphaGo swept the first three games and took home the $1 million
match prize. But that was only one way of deciding this historic match. Lee Sedol
very much changed the equation on Sunday night, when he won a stirring Game Four,
and a small mob of Korean press cheered him as he walked into the post-game press
conference. “Because I lost three matches and then was able to get one single win,
this win is so valuable that I wouldn’t exchange it for anything in the world,” he
said, through an interpreter, after his victory in Game Four. “That’s because of
the cheers and the encouragement that you all have shown me.” It’s not just the
Korean press that’s excited. Here in Seoul, the match has been front-page news all
week—literally. If you turn on television in your hotel room or hop into a cab with
the radio on, it inevitably pops up. Hours before Game Five, Demis Hassabis, who
oversees the Google AI Lab that built AlphaGo, walked down the main boulevard in
Sejong Daero, just down the street from the Four Seasons hotel, which has housed
the match all week. Time and again, Hassabis was recognized by passers-by. One
Korean woman stretched out both her arms out and theatrically dropped her jaw in
amazement. It was a bit like she’d just seen Beyoncé walking down the Sejong
Daero—arm-in-arm with Lady Gaga. But the Korean public isn’t pulling for Demis
Hassabis and AlphaGo. They’re pulling for Lee Sedol. An estimated 8 million Koreans
play Go, and even among those who don’t, he’s a national figure. It’s his boyish
face that typically appears on those front pages. The result is that during the
first three games of the match, he very much felt the weight of a nation. He said
as much during the press conference following his decisive loss in Game Three. He
also apologized to anyone who had expected more from him. “I don’t know what to say
today, but I think I will have to express my apologies first,” he said. “I should
have shown a better result, a better outcome, a better contest in terms of the
games played.” Over the course of the match, the machine can’t change its strategy
based on how its opponent played in the previous games. That pressure seemed to
lift in Game Four. Lee Sedol played his strongest match. And he won, in part, he
said, because AlphaGo was playing the black stones and he was playing the white.
AlphaGo also played black in Game Two, and in both of these games, Lee Sedol said,
he felt that the machine wasn’t as strong. “It struggled more when it was holding
black,” he said during the press conference following his win in Game Four. And yet
he asked to play the black stones in Game Five, choosing the more difficult
scenario. He wanted to win in a way he hadn’t yet won. “I really do hope I can win
with black” he said, “because winning with black is much more valuable.” As Game
Five began, the question was whether Lee Sedol would go on the attack with the
black stones or play a more cagey game. He had attacked in Game Four, and he had
won. But that was with the white stones. About nine moves into Game Five, the
Korean did attack, laying claim to territory on the right-hand side of the board
rather than play a more expansive game across the board as a whole. Typically, Lee
Sedol prefers an aggressive style. He was playing to his strengths. But judging
from what little we know about AlphaGo—we’ve only seen this incarnation of the
machine play a total of four games—it too was playing to type. It seems to prefer a
more expansive style. “Both players are, in a way, playing predictably,” said
English language commentator Michael Redmond. Compared to the previous three games,
Lee Sedol played with more speed. In Games Two, Three, and Four, he fell into clock
trouble early after spending an enormous amount of time contemplating early moves.
Forty minutes into this game, he had just as much time on the clock as AlphaGo. A
machine has certain advantages in a match like this. It doesn’t feel pressure. It
doesn’t get tired. But in the case of AlphaGo, there’s one notable disadvantage.
Over the course of the match, Google’s craetion can’t change its strategy based on
how its opponent played in the previous games. Because Hassabis and team need
several weeks to retrain AlphaGo, they can’t alter the system until after the match
is over. But Lee Sedol can shift strategy. He can adapt his play according to what
has come before. And as Game Five progressed, it seemed that he was adapting,
drawing not only on his win in Game Four but on his losses in the first three
games. An hour into the game, Lee Sedol continued to play aggressively. In
Redmond’s words, the strategy was “take territory, take territory.” This worked in
Game Four. But as Redmond pointed out, it worked only after one brilliant
game-changing move from the Korean grandmaster. That was Move 78, a “wedge” play in
the middle of the board that suddenly and unexpectedly shifted the path of the
contest. Before the move, according to commentators and Go aficionados—and
according to AlphaGo itself, we later found out—the Google machine held a notable
advantage in the game. Then Lee Sedol spent a good half hour considering what to do
next before unloading Move 78. As Demis Hassabis soon tweeted, it was not a move
that AlphaGo expected any human to make, and with the very next move, the machine
made a fateful mistake. Within minutes, after analyzing the state of the game,
AlphaGo decided that its chances of winning had plummeted. As the game progressed,
the machine began to make a particularly odd and an ineffective string of moves.
And eventually, it resigned. It seemed that a second moment of genius was an awful
lot to expect from Lee Sedol. It seemed that AlphaGo is ill-equipped to deal with
such a sudden moment of human genius—a move that no other human is likely to make.
But as Game Five rolled on, it also seemed that a second moment of genius was an
awful lot to expect from Lee Sedol. At the hour-and-twenty-minute mark, AlphaGo
made what the commentators saw as a rather weak move, and this sparked talk of
another sudden collapse. “Are we seeing another short circuit?” asked the other
English language commentator, Chris Garlock. But AlphaGo has a general tendency to
do this kind of thing. The machine plays moves designed to maximize its chances of
winning, not to maximize the margin of victory. This sometimes results in seemingly
weak or “slack” moves that top human players look down on. Now, both AlphaGo and
Lee Sedol were playing at speed. “I’m barely keeping up with the game,” Redmond
said. The Korean had used more of his play clock, but only slightly. AlphaGo’s
clock stood at one hour and twenty-four minutes. Lee Sedol was at an hour and
twelve. Once their clocks run out, the player must make each move in less then 60
seconds. With his aggressive play, Lee Sedol had come to dominate the area in the
lower part of the board. And it seemed that AlphaGo had made a major mistake in
this area—an error that even a moderately skilled human would never make. “It’s
black’s territory,” Redmond said, referring to the human. AlphaGo, he added, could
end up taking a “horrible loss” in this area—the kind of loss that could very much
tilt the game in favor of Lee Sedol. “When you give him extra points like this,
he’s very happy,” Redmond said. “He feels that even with just two or three extra
points, he should be able to take that home with him and win the game.” But there
was still much of the game left to play. As time went on, Garlock and Redmond felt
the game was playing out in a way that was somewhere between what went down in Lee
Sedol’s Game Three loss and what happened during AlphaGo’s loss in Game Four. There
was more open space, but options still seemed limited. “I don’t see any place for
black to run here except right into the arms of white,” Garlock said. Two and a
half hours into the match, Redmond felt the game has entered a “dangerous period.”
Lee Sedol, he said, faced a fight in the very center of the board. But he still
felt the Korean was ahead. There was one scenario, he said, where Lee Sedol would
grab hold of the all-important area at the heart of play. But there was another
where AlphaGo grabbed this area instead. “The difference between those two futures
of the game is really huge,” Redmond said. Forty five minutes later, this fight was
still playing out. “It’s a very complicated game,” Redmond said. “So much hinges on
the center territory.” And as the game passed the three-and-a-half-hour mark, Lee
Sedol ran into time trouble. His clock was down to 5 minutes, while AlphaGo still
had close to 30. The problem was: there was still so much unclaimed space in the
top right-hand side of the board. Fighting for that space wouldn’t be easy. Indeed,
his clock soon ran out. And then he failed to make a move in the allotted sixty
seconds. Two more failures and he would forfeit the match. During his win in Game
Four, the Korean kept the drama high by repeatedly waiting until the last
millisecond to play a move that would have meant defeat if he hadn’t played it soon
enough. AlphaGo relies on deep neural networks—networks of hardware and software
that mimic the web of neurons in the human brain. With these neural nets, it can
learn tasks by analyzing massive amounts of digital data. If you feed enough photos
of cow in the neural net, it can learn to recognize a cow. And if you feed it
enough Go moves from human players, it can learn the game of Go. But Hassabis and
team have also used these techniques to teach AlphaGo how to manage time. And the
machine certainly seemed to manage it better than the Korean grandmaster. Its clock
still carried sixteen minutes. The Google machine repeatedly made rather unorthodox
moves that the commentators could quite understand. But that too is expected. After
training on real human moves, AlphaGo continues its education by playing game after
game after game against itself. It learns from a vast trove of moves that it
generates on it own—not just from human moves. That means it is sometimes makes
moves no human would. This is what allows it to beat a top human like Lee Sedol.
But over the course of an individual game, it can also leave humans scratching
their heads. The game showed that AlphaGo is far from infallible. Then AlphaGo’s
clock ran out. Both players were down to 60 seconds for each move, and Lee Sedol
had exceeded his 60 seconds twice. One more, and he would forfeit the game. Soon,
the game crossed the four-and-a-half-hour mark, and it looked, for the first time
in the match, like the two players would play the game out to the very end without
either player resigning. It was that close. Eyeing the board, Redmond started to
count up the points that seemed available to each player, and it appeared that one
had an edge. “Unfortunately for Lee Sedol,” he said, “I think white might have a
slight advantage here.” And as the game stretched to five hours, Redmond began to
concede victory to AlphaGo. But it was hard to tell, he said, where Lee Sedol had
gone wrong. Seconds later, the Korean resigned. The game showed that AlphaGo is far
from infallible. Early in the contest, it made a mistake that even a decent human
player would not make. There are holes in its education. But, able to draw on
months of play with itself—on a corpus of moves that no human has even seen—it also
has the ability to climb out of such a deep hole, even against one of the world’s
best players. AI is flawed. But it is here. Don't get caught up on the gadgets at
CES, you probably won't be able to buy them. Ever. wrd.cm/2iMcNEU Don't get caught
up on the gadgets at CES, you probably won't be able to buy them. Ever.
wrd.cm/2iMcNEU We get it: Ads aren’t what you’re here for. But ads help us keep the
lights on. So, add us to your ad blocker’s whitelist or pay $1 per week for an
ad-free version of WIRED. Either way, you are supporting our journalism. We’d
really appreciate it. Already a member? Log in All of us at WIRED appreciate your
support! Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our user agreement (effective
3/21/12) and privacy policy (effective 3/21/12). Affiliate link policy. Your
California privacy rights. The material on this site may not be reproduced,
distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written
permission of Condé Nast. 
============================= END ARTICLE ============================

=========================== START SUMMARY ===========================
Caption: Caption: Lee Sedol surrounded by the press after game four. SEOUL, SOUTH
KOREA — In the final game of their historic match, Google’s artificially
intelligent Go-playing computer system has defeated Korean grandmaster Lee Sedol,
finishing the best-of-five series with four wins and one loss. Over the last
twenty-five years, machines have beaten the best humans at checkers, chess,
Othello, even Jeopardy! But this is the first time a machine has topped the very
best at Go—a 2,500-year-old game that’s exponentially more complex than chess and
requires, at least among humans, an added degree of intuition. But this week’s
events are even more significant when you consider that the machine learning
technologies underpinning Google’s machine, known as AlphaGo, are already pushing
their way into real-world applications. Lee Sedol could not climb back to finish
within one win of his artificially intelligent rival. But he did lead Game Five in
the early going, after a significant error by AlphaGo—an error that looked
amateurish to the human eye. As the Google machine dug out of its hole in the
second half of the contest, Game Five grew into the most exciting of the series, a
game balanced on a knife edge, exceeding even the drama of Lee Sedol’s win in Game
Four. The Korean showed—in swashbuckling fashion—that humans still carry talents
that no machine can duplicate. Yes, early in the five-game series, he struggled to
deal with the pressure—a very human failing. But as the match continued, he adapted
to what he saw from his opponent in previous games—something AlphaGo can’t yet do.
The excitement swirling around Game Five was more extreme even than in the run-up
to Game One—a remarkable thing when you consider that the match had been decided
three days earlier, when AlphaGo swept the first three games and took home the $1
million match prize. But that was only one way of deciding this historic match. Lee
Sedol very much changed the equation on Sunday night, when he won a stirring Game
Four, and a small mob of Korean press cheered him as he walked into the post-game
press conference. “Because I lost three matches and then was able to get one single
win, this win is so valuable that I wouldn’t exchange it for anything in the
world,” he said, through an interpreter, after his victory in Game Four. Hours
before Game Five, Demis Hassabis, who oversees the Google AI Lab that built
AlphaGo, walked down the main boulevard in Sejong Daero, just down the street from
the Four Seasons hotel, which has housed the match all week. But the Korean public
isn’t pulling for Demis Hassabis and AlphaGo. They’re pulling for Lee Sedol. Over
the course of the match, the machine can’t change its strategy based on how its
opponent played in the previous games. That pressure seemed to lift in Game Four.
Lee Sedol played his strongest match. And he won, in part, he said, because AlphaGo
was playing the black stones and he was playing the white. AlphaGo also played
black in Game Two, and in both of these games, Lee Sedol said, he felt that the
machine wasn’t as strong. “It struggled more when it was holding black,” he said
during the press conference following his win in Game Four. And yet he asked to
play the black stones in Game Five, choosing the more difficult scenario. “I really
do hope I can win with black” he said, “because winning with black is much more
valuable.”. As Game Five began, the question was whether Lee Sedol would go on the
attack with the black stones or play a more cagey game. About nine moves into Game
Five, the Korean did attack, laying claim to territory on the right-hand side of
the board rather than play a more expansive game across the board as a whole.
Typically, Lee Sedol prefers an aggressive style. But judging from what little we
know about AlphaGo—we’ve only seen this incarnation of the machine play a total of
four games—it too was playing to type. Compared to the previous three games, Lee
Sedol played with more speed. Forty minutes into this game, he had just as much
time on the clock as AlphaGo. A machine has certain advantages in a match like
this. Over the course of the match, Google’s craetion can’t change its strategy
based on how its opponent played in the previous games. Because Hassabis and team
need several weeks to retrain AlphaGo, they can’t alter the system until after the
match is over. But Lee Sedol can shift strategy. And as Game Five progressed, it
seemed that he was adapting, drawing not only on his win in Game Four but on his
losses in the first three games. An hour into the game, Lee Sedol continued to play
aggressively. Before the move, according to commentators and Go aficionados—and
according to AlphaGo itself, we later found out—the Google machine held a notable
advantage in the game. Then Lee Sedol spent a good half hour considering what to do
next before unloading Move 78. As Demis Hassabis soon tweeted, it was not a move
that AlphaGo expected any human to make, and with the very next move, the machine
made a fateful mistake. It seemed that a second moment of genius was an awful lot
to expect from Lee Sedol. It seemed that AlphaGo is ill-equipped to deal with such
a sudden moment of human genius—a move that no other human is likely to make. But
as Game Five rolled on, it also seemed that a second moment of genius was an awful
lot to expect from Lee Sedol. This sometimes results in seemingly weak or “slack”
moves that top human players look down on. Now, both AlphaGo and Lee Sedol were
playing at speed. AlphaGo’s clock stood at one hour and twenty-four minutes. Lee
Sedol was at an hour and twelve. With his aggressive play, Lee Sedol had come to
dominate the area in the lower part of the board. And it seemed that AlphaGo had
made a major mistake in this area—an error that even a moderately skilled human
would never make. “It’s black’s territory,” Redmond said, referring to the human.
AlphaGo, he added, could end up taking a “horrible loss” in this area—the kind of
loss that could very much tilt the game in favor of Lee Sedol. As time went on,
Garlock and Redmond felt the game was playing out in a way that was somewhere
between what went down in Lee Sedol’s Game Three loss and what happened during
AlphaGo’s loss in Game Four. Two and a half hours into the match, Redmond felt the
game has entered a “dangerous period.” Lee Sedol, he said, faced a fight in the
very center of the board. There was one scenario, he said, where Lee Sedol would
grab hold of the all-important area at the heart of play. “So much hinges on the
center territory.” And as the game passed the three-and-a-half-hour mark, Lee Sedol
ran into time trouble. Two more failures and he would forfeit the match. During his
win in Game Four, the Korean kept the drama high by repeatedly waiting until the
last millisecond to play a move that would have meant defeat if he hadn’t played it
soon enough. AlphaGo relies on deep neural networks—networks of hardware and
software that mimic the web of neurons in the human brain. After training on real
human moves, AlphaGo continues its education by playing game after game after game
against itself. That means it is sometimes makes moves no human would. This is what
allows it to beat a top human like Lee Sedol. Then AlphaGo’s clock ran out. Both
players were down to 60 seconds for each move, and Lee Sedol had exceeded his 60
seconds twice. “Unfortunately for Lee Sedol,” he said, “I think white might have a
slight advantage here.” And as the game stretched to five hours, Redmond began to
concede victory to AlphaGo. But it was hard to tell, he said, where Lee Sedol had
gone wrong. 
============================ END SUMMARY ============================

PREV : 170 sentences | NEW : 65 sentences | COMPRESSION: 61.76%

WEBSITE: https://www.wired.com/2016/03/googles-ai-wins-fifth-final-game-go-genius-lee-sedol/
TITLE: Google’s AI Wins Fifth And Final Game Against Go Genius Lee Sedol | WIRED
